.TH capdump 1 "15 Mar 2012" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
capdump \- Save capture stream to file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B capdump [-o \fIFILE\fP] [\fIOPTIONS\fP...] \fISTREAM\fP...
.SH DESCRIPTION
capture \fISTREAM\fP and save to \fiFILE\fP. If no output file is specified
stdout is used. Streams are specified in standard format, see stream-address(3).

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Save output in capfile.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-iface\fR=\fIIFACE\fR
For ethernet-based streams this is the interface to listen on. Required for
ethernet streams.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-packets\fR=\fIAMOUNT\fR
Stops capture after \fIAMOUNT\fP packets has been recevied. Default is to
capture until sender terminates or SIGINT is recevied.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-comment\fR=\fISTRING\fR
Set the comment for the output stream. Default is to copy from source stream (if
available.)
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bufsize\fR=\fISIZE\fR
Use a buffer of \fISIZE\fP bytes or 0 for default. The actual default size
depends on the source stream. Capfiles uses 4096 bytes and ethernet 175k
bytes.
.TP
\fB\-\-progress\fR[=\fIFD\fR]
Writes a progress report to \fIFD\fR (default stderr) every 60th second.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Short help.
.SH MARKERS
Markers can be used to segment the stream to multiple files or to stop saving
when marker is received. Markers can either be sent inside the stream (live on
the measured stream, will be present in the trace) or via an additional socket.

If \fB\-o\fR is used files will be named according to the format specified with
\fB\-\-marker\-format\fR, if using redirection or pipes EOF will be sent and the
capturing stops.

Markers are sent using capmaker(1).

.TP
\fB\-\-marker\fR=\fIPORT\fR
Look for specially crafted marker packet in the stream on port \fiPORT\fP.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-key=\fIKEY\fR
Only act on markers with matching key, other markers is ignored (but will still
be present in output file).
.TP
\fB\-\-marker\-format\fR=\fIFORMAT\fR
Default format is "%f.%s.%e".
.RS
.IP %f
filename without extension.
.IP %e
filename extension.
.IP %s
marker sequence number.
.IP %x
marker experiment ID.
.IP %r
marker run ID.
.IP %k
marker key (domain specific)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-marker\-mode\fR=\fIMODE\fR
When used together with --marker-format the mode determines what to do when a
filename collision is detected.
.RS
.IP I
Increment (default). Append a sequential number after the filename.
.IP O
Overwrite. Discard the previous trace and overwrite using the same filename
.IP A
Append. Retain the previous trace and append packets to it (the marker will also
be included in the trace)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-marker\-comment\fR
Use marker comment as the stream comment.
.TP
\fB\-\-marker\-quit\fR
Terminate application after receiving marker.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-listen\fR
Listen on local TCP and UDP sockets for markers.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-port=\fIPORT\fR
Port number to listen on. Default is 4000.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 David Sveningsson <dsv@bth.se>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stream-address(3), capmarker(1)
