.TH capfilter 1 "18 Jun 2011" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
capfilter \- Filter packages in a capfile.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B capfilter [-i \fIFILE\fP] [-o \fIFILE\fP] [\fIOPTIONS...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR capfilter
is used to filter packages in an existing capture and store the result in a new
file. \fIcapfilter\fP without a filter can be used to convert a capture from an
old format to the latest.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Read capture from FILE or use \- to read from stdin (default)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Store result into FILE or use \- to write to stdout (default if not a TTY)
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rejects\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Store packets rejected by the filter.
.SH FILTER
.TP
\fB\-\-starttime\fR=\fIDATETIME\fR
Discard all packages before DATETIME. See DATE FORMAT for a description of
accepted formats.
.TP
\fB\-\-endtime\fR=\fIDATETIME\fR
Discard all packages including and after DATETIME. See DATE FORMAT for a
description of accepted formats. This will also stop the filtering as no more
packages can match.
.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR=\fIDATETIME\fR
Alias for --starttime.
.TP
\fB\-\-end\fR=\fIDATETIME\fR
Alias for --endtime.
.TP
\fB\-\-frame\-max\-dt\fR=\fIDATETIME\fR
Discard all packets after DATETIME seconds went since the last packet.
.TP
\fB\-\-iface\fR=\fISTRING\fR
Discard all packages which isn't captured on the interface give by STRING.
.TP
\fB\-\-mampid\fR=\fISTRING\fR
Discard all packages not originating from MP with MAMPid STRING.
.TP
\fB\-\-mpid\fR=\fISTRING\fR (deprecated)
Alias for --mampid.
.TP
\fB\-\-eth.vlan\fR=\fITCO[/MASK]\fR
Filter by VLAN Tag Control Information. Discards packets without a VLAN tag.
.TP
\fB\-\-eth.type\fR=\fITYPE[/MASK]\fR
Discards packets not of ethernet protocol \fITYPE\fP which can either be entered as
protocol number or name e.g. "ip" or "arp".
.TP
\fB\-\-eth.src\fR=\fIADDRESS[/MASK]\fR
Discard packets not originating from \fIADDRESS\fP. See ETHERNET ADDRESS for format.
.TP
\fB\-\-eth.dst\fR=\fIADDRESS[/MASK]\fR
Discard packets not destined to \fIADDRESS\fP. See ETHERNET ADDRESS for format.
.TP
\fB\-\-ip.proto\fR=\fIPROTOCOL\fR
Discard packets not using IP protocol \fIPROTOCOL\fP which can either be entered as
protocol number or a valid name from `/etc/protocols`.
.TP
\fB\-\-ip.src\fR=\fIADDRESS\fR[/\fINETMASK\fP]
Discard all packages where source address doesn't match ADDRESS. A mask can be
specified to match a network. Either pass a netmask (e.g. /255.255.255.0) or
CIDR-notation (e.g. /24).
.TP
\fB\-\-ip.dst\fR=\fIADDRESS\fR[/\fINETMASK\fP]
Discard all packages where destination address doesn't match ADDRESS. See
\-\-ip.src for format.
.TP
\fB\-\-tp.sport\fR=\fIPORT[/MASK]\fR
Discard packets not originating from \fIPORT\fP which can either be entered as
protocol number or a valid name from `/etc/services`.
.TP
\fB\-\-tp.dport\fR=\fIPORT[/MASK]\fR
Discard packets not destined to \fIPORT\fP which can either be entered as
protocol number or a valid name from `/etc/services`.
.TP
\fB\-\-filter-mode\fR=\fIMODE\fR
\fIMODE\fP can be set to either OR or AND (default) which changes the operator
when joining the different filters. By setting to OR only one of the filters
has to match while AND all must match.
.TP
\fB\-\-frame-num\fR=\fIRANGE\fR
Discards all packets not in the specified range.
Range can be specified as
.RS
.TP
\[bu] FRAME - Match only this specific frame.
.TP
\[bu] LOWER-UPPER - Match all frames between LOWER and UPPER (inclusive)
.TP
\[bu] -UPPER - Match all frames up to UPPER (inclusive)
.TP
\[bu] LOWER- - Match all frames from LOWER and onwards (inclusive)
.TP
.RE
Multiple ranges can be joined with comma. E.g. "-5,7,10-" would match packets
1-5, 7 and then from 10 until the end of the stream.
.SH DATE FORMAT
Valid date formats are:
.sp
UNIX timestamp.x
.br
YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss.x
.br
YYYYMMDD hh:mm:ss.x
.br
YYMMDD hh:mm:ss.x
.TP
where x describes picoseconds and can be up to 12 digits.
.SH ETHERNET FORMAT
Ethernet addresses can use an expansion syntax using :: where the space between
the colon is filled with zeroes, e.g. 01::01 is expanded to 01:00:00:00:00:01.
Digits may be separated by colon or dash but does not have to be separated (but
expansion only works with colon). E.g. "ff:ff...", "ff-ff..." and "ffff..." is all
identical.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David Sveningsson <david.sveningsson@bth.se>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mp(1)
