.TH capmarker 1 "01 Feb 2012" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
capmarker \- Send a special packet that be identified in the capture stream.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B capmarker \-e \fIEXP\fP \-r \fIRUN\fP [\-k \fIKEY\fP] [\-s \fISEQ\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Markers are special packets that \fIlibcap_utils\fR can easily
identify and which contains meta-data about the traffic. \fIcapdump\fR
can use markers to split captures to multiple files and it can be used
to later identify what experiment and run the traffic belongs to.

.nf
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-experiment\fR=\fIID\fR
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-run\fR=\fIID\fR
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-key\fR=\fIID\fR
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sequence\fR=\fIID\fR
.RS
Extra information passed in the marker. There is no inherit meaning to
these numbers, it is considered domain-specific information that the
user puts meaning into.
.BR
Usually all numbers starts at 1 and for each new scenario the
\fBexperiment\fR number is increased. If the scenario consists of
multiple runs the \fBrun\fR number is reset back to 1 at the start and
increased once per run. \fBKey\fR can be used as an identifier and
\fBsequence\fR might be a global sequential number.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-comment\fR
Include text-comment in marker. Up to 63 characters can be included verbatim.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Send marker as a UDP packet. Default.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Send marker as a TCP packet (need a receiver for to work, e.g. `nc -lp PORT`).
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Send marker as an ethernet frame.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-terminate\fR
Include a hint to consumers that this stream is no longer interesting,
e.g. if you have some automatic tests or scenario that have finished
you make include the termination hint so consumers can stop
processing.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Short help.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 David Sveningsson <dsv@bth.se>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stream-address(3), capplay(1)
