.TH capshow 1 "21 Dec 2015" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
capshow \- Decode and display packages in a stream or trace.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B capshow [\fIOPTIONS...\fP] STREAM
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR capshow
is used to decode and display packages in a live stream or an offline
capfile.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-iface\fR=\fIIFACE\fR
For ethernet-based streams this is the interface to listen
on. Required for ethernet streams.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-packets\fR=\fIN\fR
Stops capture after \fIN\fP packets has been recevied.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR=\fIN\fR
Stops capture after \fIN\fP packets has been matched.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fIN\fR
Wait for N ms while packet-buffer filles. Use longer intervals for
hi-speed streams and shorter for streams with very little packets but
you want application to be responsive.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR\, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display short help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH FORMATTING OPTIONS
These options affect the output format and how deep packet decoding should occur.
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
Show only DPMI metadata.
.TP
\fB\-2\fR
Include link layer.
.TP
\fB\-3\fR
Include transport layer.
.TP
\fB\-4\fR
Include application layer. Default.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-headers\fR
Show full layer headers.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-hexdump\fR
Write full packet contents as hexdump.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-calender\fR
Show timestamps in humand-readable format (UTC).
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-localtime\fR
Show timestamps in humand-readable format (local time).
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-absolute\fR
Show absolute timestamps (unix timestamps).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-relative\fR
Show timestamps relative to the first packet. Default.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 David Sveningsson <ext-dpmi@sidvind.com>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mp(1), capdump(1), capwalk(1)
