.TH libcaputils_reading 3 "28 Aug 2012" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
libcaputils \- MA frame capture, stream library and utilities.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <caputils/caputils.h>
.sp
.BI "int stream_open(stream_t* " stptr ", const stream_addr_t* " addr ", const char* " iface ", size_t " buffer_size ");"
.BI "int stream_add(stream_t " st ", const stream_addr_t* " addr ");"
.BI "int stream_from_getopt(stream_t* " st ", char* " argv "[], int " optind ", int " argc ", const char* " iface ", const char* " defaddr ", const char* " program_name ", size_t " buffer_size ");"
.BI "int stream_close(stream_t " st ");"
.BI "int stream_read(stream_t " st ", cap_head** " header ", const struct filter* " filter ", struct timeval* " timeout ");"
.BI "int stream_peek(stream_t " st ", cap_head** " header ", const struct filter* " filter ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR stream_open
Open a new stream using address provided in \fIaddr\fP. Ethernet streams
require \fIiface\fP to be set but other types ignore it and can safely be but to
NULL if you know the address type isn't ethernet. \fIbuffer_size\fP should be
kept to zero (indicating default size) unless you need a specific size for the
internal packet buffer.
.TP
.BR stream_add
For ethenet based streams it associates another multicast address with this
stream.
.TP
.BR stream_from_getopt
Shorthand for opening multiple streams from command-line arguments. Calls
stream_open followed by stream_add, with error checking. Errors is printed on
stderr.
.TP
.BR stream_close
Closes the stream referenced by \fIst\fP. No operations is allowed on the stream
after this point.
.TP
.BR stream_read
read the next matching packet from stream \fIst\fP. A pointer to the packet in
an internal buffer is returned via \fIheader\fP. If you intend to modify or
store the packet for a longer period of time the memory must be copied. For
offline streams (i.e. capfiles) -1 can be returned to signal EOF. On errors
\fIheader\fP is undefined. If \fItimeout\fP is non-null the function will not
block and will return EAGAIN if timeout is reached.
.TP
.BR stream_peek
Like stream_read but does not pop the packet from the buffer. Return EAGAIN if
there is no packet in the buffer. This call never blocks.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return zero if successful and unless otherwise specified non-zero
corresponds to errno code or if greater than 0x80000000 they represents caputils
errors. Use \fBcaputils_error_string\fP to get a string that describes the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EINVAL
Invalid parameter passed, e.g. invalid stream or a null-pointer.
.TP
.BR EAGAIN
A timeout has occured.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Patrik Arlos <patrik.arlos@bth.se> and David Sveningsson <david.sveningsson@bth.se>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mp(1), capfilter(1)
