.TH libcaputils_reading 3 "3 Aug 2011" "BTH" "Measurement Area Manual"
.SH NAME
libcaputils \- MA frame capture, stream library and utilities.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <caputils/caputils.h>
.sp
.BI "int stream_open(stream_t* " stptr ", const stream_addr_t* " addr ", const char* " iface ", size_t " buffer_size ");"
.BI "int stream_add(stream_t " st ", const stream_addr_t* " addr ");"
.BI "int stream_from_getopt(stream_t* " st ", char* " argv "[], int " optind ", int " argc ", const char* " iface ", const char* " defaddr ", const char* " program_name ", size_t " buffer_size ");"
.BI "int stream_close(stream_t " st ");"
.BI "int stream_read(stream_t " st ", cap_head** " header ", const struct filter* " filter ", struct timeval* " timeout ");"
.BI "int stream_peek(stream_t " st ", cap_head** " header ", const struct filter* " filter ");"

void stream_get_version(const stream_t st, struct file_version* dst);
const char* stream_get_comment(const stream_t st);
const char* stream_get_mampid(const stream_t st);
const struct stream_stat* stream_get_stat(const stream_t st);
unsigned int stream_num_address(const stream_t st);
void stream_print_info(const stream_t st, FILE* dst);

int stream_create(stream_t* st, const stream_addr_t* addr, const char* nic, const char* mpid, const char* comment);
int stream_write(stream_t st, const void* data, size_t size);
int stream_copy(stream_t st, const caphead_t head);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR stream_read()
read the next matching packet from stream \fIst\fP. A pointer to the packet in
an internal buffer is returned via \fIheader\fP. If you intend to modify or
store the packet for a longer period of time the memory must be copied. For
offline streams (i.e. capfiles) -1 can be returned to signal EOF. On errors
\fIheader\fP is undefined. If \fItimeout\fP is non-null the function will not
block and will return EAGAIN if timeout is reached.
.TP
.BR stream_from_getopt()
Shorthand for opening multiple streams from command-line arguments. Calls
stream_open followed by stream_add, with error checking. Errors is printed on
stderr.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return zero if successful and unless otherwise specified non-zero
corresponds to errno code or if greater than 0x80000000 they represents caputils
errors. Use \fBcaputils_error_string\fP to get a string that describes the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EINVAL
Invalid parameter passed, e.g. invalid stream or a null-pointer.
.TP
.BR EAGAIN
A timeout has occured.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Patrik Arlos <patrik.arlos@bth.se> and David Sveningsson <david.sveningsson@bth.se>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mp(1), capfilter(1)
